---
title: "In Taoyuan, heroes gathered for a feast, and three heroes became sworn brothers. They eliminated the army wearing yellow headbands, marking their first achievement."
description: Romance of the Three Kingdoms,tao yuan jie yi,Liubei,Guanyu,Zhangfei
date: 2024-10-18T16:00:16+08:00
image: index.jpg
math: 
license: 
categories:
    - Romance of the Three Kingdoms
    - historical fiction
tags:
    - 'Author: Luo Guanzhong(罗贯中)'
    - Wonderful novel
    - ancient novels
    - Chinese historical novels
    - Liubei
    - Guanyu
    - Zhangfei
hidden: false
comments: true
draft: true

---

{{< quote author="杨慎" source="临江仙" url="https://www.gushiwen.cn/shiwenv_284e20a25958.aspx">}}
The mighty Yangtze River flows eastward, its waves washing away heroes. Right and wrong, success and failure, all turn to emptiness. The green mountains remain, witnessing the setting sun time and again.
On the riverbank, an old fisherman and woodcutter are accustomed to the autumn moon and spring breeze. With a pot of turbid wine, they delight in meeting. How many events from ancient times to the present are all left to laughter and conversation?
{{< /quote >}}

It is said that in the great trends of the world, what has long been divided must unite, and what has long been united must divide. During the Warring States period, the seven states contended, eventually merging into Qin. After the fall of Qin, Chu and Han fought for dominance, ultimately merging into Han.The Han dynasty began when Liu Bang rose in rebellion after slaying the White Serpent, unifying the realm. Later, under Emperor Guangwu, the dynasty prospered until it reached Emperor Xian, when it divided into the Three Kingdoms.The chaos can be traced back to Emperors Huan and Ling. Emperor Huan imprisoned virtuous officials and favored eunuchs. After Emperor Huan's death, Emperor Ling ascended the throne, with General Dou Wu and Grand Tutor Chen Fan assisting him. However, eunuchs like Cao Jie seized power, and when Dou Wu and Chen Fan plotted to eliminate them, their plans were discovered, leading to their demise, which allowed the eunuchs to grow even more arrogant from that point on.

In the fourth month of the second year of Jian Ning, the Emperor was at the Wende Hall. As he ascended the throne, a fierce wind suddenly blew through the hall. A large green snake descended from the beams and coiled around the chair. The Emperor was startled and quickly evacuated to the palace, with all officials fleeing in terror. Shortly after, the snake disappeared. Suddenly, there was a great thunderstorm with hail, which lasted until midnight and destroyed countless houses.In the second month of the fourth year of Jian Ning, Luoyang experienced an earthquake, and the sea overflowed, with coastal residents swept away by huge waves. In the first year of Guanghe, a hen transformed into a rooster. On the first day of June, dark clouds over ten zhang high flew into the Wengxiong Hall. In July, a rainbow appeared in the Jade Hall, and the cliffs of Wuyuan Mountain crumbled. Various ominous signs occurred, not just a few. The Emperor issued an edict to inquire about the causes of these disasters. The official Cai Yong submitted a memorial, arguing that the transformation of the hen was due to women interfering in politics, which he stated quite bluntly. The Emperor, sighing after reading the memorial, went to change his clothes. Cao Jie, who was behind, secretly watched and spread the news, leading to Cai Yong being framed for other matters and sent back to the countryside.Later, ten officials, including Zhang Rang, Zhao Zhong, Feng Xun, Duan Gui, Cao Jie, Hou Lan, Jian Shuo, Cheng Kuang, Xia Yun, and Guo Sheng, conspired together and were known as the "Ten Eunuchs." The Emperor held Zhang Rang in high regard, calling him "Father." The governance worsened daily, causing turmoil among the people and a rise in banditry.

In the past, in Julu County, there were three brothers named Zhang Jiao, Zhang Bao, and Zhang Liang. Zhang Jiao, originally an unsuccessful scholar, went into the mountains to gather herbs and met an old man with blue eyes and a youthful face, who held a broomstick. The old man brought Jiao to a cave and gave him three volumes of heavenly scriptures, saying, "This is called 'Taiping Yao Shu.' If you understand it, you will proclaim the heavenly message and save the world. If you have any ulterior motives, you will face dire consequences." Jiao asked for the old man's name, and he replied, "I am the Nanhua Old Immortal." After speaking, he vanished into a gentle breeze.Jiao studied the scriptures day and night, mastering the ability to summon wind and rain, earning the title "Taiping Daoist." In the first month of the Zhongping era, an epidemic spread. Zhang Jiao distributed talismans and water to treat the sick, calling himself the "Great Virtuous Teacher." He had over five hundred disciples who traveled far and wide, all able to write talismans and chant spells. As the number of followers grew, he established thirty-six factions, with over ten thousand in the large factions and six to seven thousand in the smaller ones, each led by a general. They spread the rumor, "Heaven is dead; Yellow Heaven will rise; in the year of Jiazi, the world will be auspicious," urging everyone to write "Jiazi" on their front doors with white clay. People in the eight provinces of Qing, You, Xu, Ji, Jing, Yang, Yan, and Yu all honored the name of the Great Virtuous Teacher Zhang Jiao.
Jiao sent his associate Ma Yuanyi to secretly deliver gold and silk to connect with the official Feng Xu as an inside informant. Jiao discussed with his two brothers, saying, "The hardest thing to gain is the people's heart. Now that the people's hearts are aligned, it would be a pity not to seize the opportunity to take the world." So he secretly created a yellow flag and set a date to revolt while sending his disciple Tang Zhou to inform Feng Xu. Tang Zhou directly went to the province to report the situation.The emperor summoned General He Jin to mobilize troops to capture Ma Yuanyi and behead him, then imprisoned Feng Xu and others. When Zhang Jiao learned of the plot being exposed, he raised his army under the title "General of Heaven," while Zhang Bao called himself "General of Earth," and Zhang Liang "General of Humanity." They addressed the crowd, saying, "The Han dynasty is ending, and a great sage will arise. You should all follow heaven and righteousness for the sake of peace." Hundreds of thousands of common people donned yellow turbans to join Zhang Jiao's rebellion. The bandit forces grew immensely, causing the government troops to falter. He Jin reported to the emperor for urgent orders to prepare defenses and suppress the bandits. He also dispatched the generals Lu Zhi, Huangfu Song, and Zhu Jun, each leading elite troops on three separate routes to quell the rebellion.

It is said that Zhang Jiao's army had invaded the borders of Youzhou. The governor of Youzhou, Liu Yan, was from Jingling in Jiangxia and a descendant of the Han Prince of Lugong. Upon hearing that the rebel forces were approaching, he summoned the colonel Zou Jing to discuss strategy. Jing advised, "The enemy is numerous, while our forces are few. Your Excellency should quickly recruit more troops to confront the enemy." Liu Yan agreed with his advice and immediately posted announcements to recruit volunteer soldiers.

The announcement reached Zhuozhou, where it attracted a hero from the town. This man was not particularly fond of reading; he was kind and gentle, spoke little, and did not show his emotions easily. He had always harbored great ambitions and loved to make friends with heroes from all over the world. He was seven feet five inches tall, with ears that hung to his shoulders, hands that reached past his knees, and eyes that could see his own ears. His face was as handsome as jade, and his lips were as if painted with rouge. He was a descendant of Liu Sheng, Prince of Zhongshan and a great-great-grandson of Emperor Jing of Han. His name was Liu Bei, with the style name Xuande. In the past, Liu Zhen, Liu Bei's father, was enfeoffed as the Marquis of Zhuolu during the reign of Emperor Wu of Han, but later lost his title due to a fault in the offering of wine. Thus, this branch of the family remained in Zhuoxian. Liu Bei's grandfather was Liu Xiong, and his father was Liu Hong. Hong had been recommended as a filial and incorruptible scholar and had also served as an official, but he died young. As an orphan, Liu Bei was very filial to his mother; his family was poor, and he made a living by selling shoes and weaving mats. He lived in Lousang Village of the county. Southeast of his home was a large mulberry tree over five zhang tall, which from afar looked like a carriage canopy. A fortune teller had said, "This family will surely produce a noble person." As a child, Liu Bei played with other boys under the tree and declared, "When I become the emperor, I will ride in a carriage with this canopy." His uncle Liu Yuanqi was impressed by his words, saying, "This boy is no ordinary person!" Because Liu Bei was poor, his uncle often supported him financially.

When Liu Bei was twenty-eight years old, Liu Yan issued the call to arms. Seeing the announcement, Liu Bei sighed deeply. Then a man with a loud voice said, "A true man does not serve the country, why do you sigh?" Liu Bei turned to look at the man, who was eight feet tall, with a leopard-like head, ringed eyes, a tiger's beard, and a voice like thunder, as swift as a galloping horse. Liu Bei, seeing his extraordinary appearance, asked his name. The man replied, "My surname is Zhang, given name Fei, style name Yide. I live in Zhuojun and have considerable estates, selling wine and butchering pigs, and I love to make friends with heroes from all over the world. Just now, I saw you sigh at the announcement, so I asked." Liu Bei said, "I am a member of the imperial clan of Han, named Liu Bei. Now, hearing of the Yellow Turban Rebellion, I wish to defeat the rebels and pacify the people, but I regret my lack of strength, hence the sigh." Fei said, "I have considerable wealth and should recruit local brave men to join you in undertaking this great cause, how about it?" Liu Bei was very pleased and went with him to a village tavern to drink.

As they were drinking, they saw a tall man pushing a cart to the entrance of the tavern and stopping there. He came in, sat down, and called to the waiter, "Quickly pour me some wine, I am in a hurry to enter the city to join the army." Liu Bei looked at the man: nine feet tall with a two-foot beard; his face was like a heavy red date, lips painted with rouge; he had phoenix eyes and silkworm eyebrows, a dignified and awe-inspiring appearance. Liu Bei invited him to join them at their table and asked his name. The man said, "My surname is Guan, given name Yu, style name Changsheng, later changed to Yunchang, from Xieliang in Hedong. Because the local tyrants bullied people using their power, I killed one of them and have been on the run for five or six years. Now, hearing that troops are being recruited here to fight the rebels, I have come to enlist." Liu Bei then told him of his own aspirations, and Yunchang was delighted. They all went to Zhang Fei's estate to discuss major affairs. Fei said, "There is a peach garden behind my estate where the flowers are in full bloom; tomorrow, we should hold a ceremony to the heavens and earth there, and the three of us will become sworn brothers, unite in heart and mind, and then we can plan for great deeds." Xuande and Yunchang both agreed, "This is a wonderful idea."